preproc/00_aws/aws_notes.md, before:


######################################
# S3: Data storage
######################################

- Transfer data to S3
  - Single file
  ```
  export STUDY_DIR=/Users/zeynepenkavi/Documents/RangelLab/DescribedVsLearned_fmri/preproc
  docker run --rm -it -v ~/.aws:/root/.aws -v $STUDY_DIR/00_aws:/home amazon/aws-cli s3 cp /home/test-setup-env.sh s3://described-vs-experienced/test-setup-env.sh
  ```

  - One subject folder  
  **Note: mounting the whole raw data folder uses a lot of CPU so you should prob copy the directory you want to copy into a temporary empty dir first**
  ```
  export TMP_DIR=/Users/zeynepenkavi/Downloads/tmp
  mkdir $TMP_DIR
  cp -r /Users/zeynepenkavi/Downloads/GTavares_2017_arbitration/raw_fmri_data/AR-GT-BUNDLES-07_RANGEL $TMP_DIR/AR-GT-BUNDLES-07_RANGEL
  cd $TMP_DIR
  docker run --rm -it -v ~/.aws:/root/.aws -v $(pwd):/aws amazon/aws-cli s3 sync /aws/AR-GT-BUNDLES-07_RANGEL s3://described-vs-experienced/raw_fmri_data/AR-GT-BUNDLES-07_RANGEL --exclude "*.DS_Store"
  ```

- Check if transfer is successful. Trailing "/" matters for the content
```
aws s3 ls s3://described-vs-experienced/bids_nifti_wface/
```

######################################
# EC2: Single instance for testing
######################################

The following requires [`jq`](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/) for json processing.

- Create key pair
```
export KEYS_PATH=/Users/zeynepenkavi/aws_keys
aws ec2 create-key-pair --key-name test-cluster --query 'KeyMaterial' --output text > $KEYS_PATH/test-cluster.pem
chmod 400 $KEYS_PATH/test-cluster.pem
```

- Create security group
```
export VPC_ID=`aws ec2 describe-vpcs | jq -j '.Vpcs[0].VpcId'`
aws ec2 create-security-group --group-name test-cluster-sg --description "test-cluster security group" --vpc-id $VPC_ID
```

- Allow SSH access to security group
```
export SG_ID=`aws ec2 describe-security-groups --filters Name=group-name,Values="test-cluster-sg"  | jq -j '.SecurityGroups[0].GroupId'`
export MY_IP=`curl ifconfig.me`
aws ec2 authorize-security-group-ingress \
   --group-id $SG_ID \
   --protocol tcp \
   --port 22 \
   --cidr $MY_IP/32
```

- Env set up to run instance
```
export AMI_ID=ami-0b2ca94b5b49e0132
export KEY_NAME=test-cluster
export SG_ID=`aws ec2 describe-security-groups --filters Name=group-name,Values="test-cluster-sg"  | jq -j '.SecurityGroups[0].GroupId'`
export SUBNET_ID=`aws ec2 describe-subnets | jq -j '.Subnets[0].SubnetId'`
```

- Run instance
```
docker run --rm -it -v ~/.aws:/root/.aws amazon/aws-cli ec2 run-instances --image-id $AMI_ID --count 1 --instance-type t2.micro --key-name $KEY_NAME --security-group-ids $SG_ID --subnet-id $SUBNET_ID
```

- Run instance with user data
```
docker run --rm -it -v ~/.aws:/root/.aws -v $(pwd):/home amazon/aws-cli ec2 run-instances --image-id $AMI_ID --count 1 --instance-type t2.micro --key-name $KEY_NAME --security-group-ids $SG_ID --subnet-id $SUBNET_ID --user-data file:///home/test-setup-env.sh
```

- List running instances
```
aws ec2 describe-instances --query 'Reservations[*].Instances[*].[Tags[?Key==`Name`]| [0].Value,InstanceType, PrivateIpAddress, PublicIpAddress]' --filters Name=instance-state-name,Values=running --output table
```

- Connect to running instance
```
export INSTANCE_IP=`aws ec2 describe-instances --filters Name=instance-state-name,Values=running | jq -j '.Reservations[0].Instances[0].PublicIpAddress'`
INSTANCE_IP=${INSTANCE_IP//./-}
export KEYS_PATH=/Users/zeynepenkavi/aws_keys
ssh -i "$KEYS_PATH/test-cluster.pem" ec2-user@ec2-$INSTANCE_IP.us-west-1.compute.amazonaws.com
```

- Install docker on EC2 instance
```
sudo yum update -y
sudo amazon-linux-extras install docker -y
sudo service docker start
sudo usermod -a -G docker ec2-user
```

- Log out+in and check if docker is working
```
docker info
```

- Download containers for e.g. heudiconv, mriqc, fmriprep onto EC2
```
docker pull nipy/heudiconv:0.9.0
```

- Give EC2 instance IAM role to access S3
```
export INSTANCE_ID=`aws ec2 describe-instances --filters Name=instance-state-name,Values=running | jq -j '.Reservations[0].Instances[0].InstanceId'`
aws ec2 associate-iam-instance-profile --instance-id $INSTANCE_ID --iam-instance-profile Name=S3FullAccessForEC2
```

- Copy content from S3 to EC2 instance after installing aws-cli
```
pip3 install awscli -U --user
aws s3 sync s3://described-vs-experienced/raw_fmri_data/AR-GT-BUNDLES-01_RANGEL ./AR-GT-BUNDLES-01_RANGEL
```

- Terminate instance
```
export INSTANCE_ID=`aws ec2 describe-instances --filters Name=instance-state-name,Values=running | jq -j '.Reservations[0].Instances[0].InstanceId'`
aws ec2 terminate-instances --instance-ids $INSTANCE_ID
```

######################################
# AWS ParallelCluster
######################################

Use custom bootstrap actions to set up master and compute nodes

- Define env variables
```
export KEY_NAME=`aws ec2 describe-key-pairs | jq -j '.KeyPairs[0].KeyName'`
export SG_ID=`aws ec2 describe-security-groups --filters Name=group-name,Values="test-cluster"  | jq -j '.SecurityGroups[0].GroupId'`
export SUBNET_ID=`aws ec2 describe-subnets | jq -j '.Subnets[0].SubnetId'`
export VPC_ID=`aws ec2 describe-vpcs | jq -j '.Vpcs[0].VpcId'`
export REGION=`aws configure get region`
```

- Copy script with bootstrap actions to s3
```
export STUDY_DIR=/Users/zeynepenkavi/Documents/RangelLab/DescribedVsLearned_fmri/preproc/00_aws
cd $STUDY_DIR
docker run --rm -it -v ~/.aws:/root/.aws -v $(pwd):/aws amazon/aws-cli s3 cp /aws/test-setup-env.sh s3://described-vs-experienced/test-setup-env.sh
```

- Set up temporary cluster config file with the environment variables piped in. Note [`make_cluster_config_ini.sh`](https://github.com/zenkavi/DescribedVsLearned_fmri/blob/master/preproc/00_aws/make_cluster_config_ini.sh) creates a `tmp.ini` file with the values piped in. Since I don't want to share these values publicly this file is not committed to my git history through a global setting in my `~/.gitignore` (ignores all files with `tmp` in the name).
```
./make_cluster_config_ini.sh
```

- Create cluster using temporary custom config.
```
pcluster create test-cluster -c tmp.ini
```

- Check cluster status
```
pcluster list --color
```

- Log onto cluster. You can directly ssh to the master node, but the compute nodes are only accessible from the master node, not from the Internet.
```
pcluster ssh test-cluster -i $KEYS_PATH/test-cluster.pem
```

- Stop and start compute nodes of cluster
```
pcluster stop test-cluster

pcluster start test-cluster
```

- Update cluster
```
pcluster update test-cluster -c tmp.ini
```

- Check cluster resources
```
sinfo
```

- Change node status (see https://slurm.schedmd.com/scontrol.html for other state options)
```
scontrol: update NodeName={NODE_NAME} State=POWER_DOWN
```

- Delete cluster
```
pcluster delete test-cluster
```

######################################
# Lustre filesystem
######################################

- List contents of filesystem
```
ls -lh /lustre
```

- View how much data is stored
```
lfs df -h
```

- View state of file
```
lfs hsm_state /lustre/{FILENAME}
```

- Release file content
```
sudo lfs hsm_release /lustre/{FILENAME}
```

- Load content of a file
```
nohup find local/directory -type f -print0 | xargs -0 -n 1 sudo lfs hsm_restore &
```

- [Recommended though under development] To write data back to the S3 bucket
```
export FS_ID=`aws fsx describe-file-systems | jq -j '.FileSystems[0].FileSystemId'`
aws fsx create-data-repository-task \
    --file-system-id $FS_ID \
    --type EXPORT_TO_REPOSITORY \
    --paths /lustre/bids_nifti_wface \
    --report Enabled=false
```

- [Not recommended] Write single file back to s3
```
sudo lfs hsm_archive path/to/export/file
sudo lfs hsm_action path/to/export/file
```

- [Not recommended] Write directory back to s3
```
nohup find local/directory -type f -print0 | xargs -0 -n 1 sudo lfs hsm_archive &
```

- Check if export completed (since the task above runs in background)
```
find path/to/export/file -type f -print0 | xargs -0 -n 1 -P 8 sudo lfs hsm_action | grep "ARCHIVE" | wc -l
```

- To change data update policy (default with CLI is no update)
```
export FS_ID=`aws fsx describe-file-systems | jq -j '.FileSystems[0].FileSystemId'`
aws fsx update-file-system \
    --file-system-id $FS_ID \
    --lustre-configuration AutoImportPolicy=NEW_CHANGED
```

Commit message:

update notes and freeze cluster setting used for the first job

preproc/00_aws/aws_notes.md, after:


######################################
# S3: Data storage
######################################

- Transfer data to S3
  - Single file
  ```
  export STUDY_DIR=/Users/zeynepenkavi/Documents/RangelLab/DescribedVsLearned_fmri/preproc
  docker run --rm -it -v ~/.aws:/root/.aws -v $STUDY_DIR/00_aws:/home amazon/aws-cli s3 cp /home/test-setup-env.sh s3://described-vs-experienced/test-setup-env.sh
  ```

  - One subject folder  
  **Note: mounting the whole raw data folder uses a lot of CPU so you should prob copy the directory you want to copy into a temporary empty dir first**
  ```
  export TMP_DIR=/Users/zeynepenkavi/Downloads/tmp
  mkdir $TMP_DIR
  cp -r /Users/zeynepenkavi/Downloads/GTavares_2017_arbitration/raw_fmri_data/AR-GT-BUNDLES-07_RANGEL $TMP_DIR/AR-GT-BUNDLES-07_RANGEL
  cd $TMP_DIR
  docker run --rm -it -v ~/.aws:/root/.aws -v $(pwd):/aws amazon/aws-cli s3 sync /aws/AR-GT-BUNDLES-07_RANGEL s3://described-vs-experienced/raw_fmri_data/AR-GT-BUNDLES-07_RANGEL --exclude "*.DS_Store"
  ```

- Check if transfer is successful. Trailing "/" matters for the content
```
aws s3 ls s3://described-vs-experienced/bids_nifti_wface/
```

######################################
# EC2: Single instance for testing
######################################

The following requires [`jq`](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/) for json processing.

- Create key pair
```
export KEYS_PATH=/Users/zeynepenkavi/aws_keys
aws ec2 create-key-pair --key-name test-cluster --query 'KeyMaterial' --output text > $KEYS_PATH/test-cluster.pem
chmod 400 $KEYS_PATH/test-cluster.pem
```

- Create security group
```
export VPC_ID=`aws ec2 describe-vpcs | jq -j '.Vpcs[0].VpcId'`
aws ec2 create-security-group --group-name test-cluster-sg --description "test-cluster security group" --vpc-id $VPC_ID
```

- Allow SSH access to security group
```
export SG_ID=`aws ec2 describe-security-groups --filters Name=group-name,Values="test-cluster-sg"  | jq -j '.SecurityGroups[0].GroupId'`
export MY_IP=`curl ifconfig.me`
aws ec2 authorize-security-group-ingress \
   --group-id $SG_ID \
   --protocol tcp \
   --port 22 \
   --cidr $MY_IP/32
```

- Env set up to run instance
```
export AMI_ID=ami-0b2ca94b5b49e0132
export KEY_NAME=test-cluster
export SG_ID=`aws ec2 describe-security-groups --filters Name=group-name,Values="test-cluster-sg"  | jq -j '.SecurityGroups[0].GroupId'`
export SUBNET_ID=`aws ec2 describe-subnets | jq -j '.Subnets[0].SubnetId'`
```

- Run instance
```
docker run --rm -it -v ~/.aws:/root/.aws amazon/aws-cli ec2 run-instances --image-id $AMI_ID --count 1 --instance-type t2.micro --key-name $KEY_NAME --security-group-ids $SG_ID --subnet-id $SUBNET_ID
```

- Run instance with user data
```
docker run --rm -it -v ~/.aws:/root/.aws -v $(pwd):/home amazon/aws-cli ec2 run-instances --image-id $AMI_ID --count 1 --instance-type t2.micro --key-name $KEY_NAME --security-group-ids $SG_ID --subnet-id $SUBNET_ID --user-data file:///home/test-setup-env.sh
```

- List running instances
```
aws ec2 describe-instances --query 'Reservations[*].Instances[*].[Tags[?Key==`Name`]| [0].Value,InstanceType, PrivateIpAddress, PublicIpAddress]' --filters Name=instance-state-name,Values=running --output table
```

- Connect to running instance
```
export INSTANCE_IP=`aws ec2 describe-instances --filters Name=instance-state-name,Values=running | jq -j '.Reservations[0].Instances[0].PublicIpAddress'`
INSTANCE_IP=${INSTANCE_IP//./-}
export KEYS_PATH=/Users/zeynepenkavi/aws_keys
ssh -i "$KEYS_PATH/test-cluster.pem" ec2-user@ec2-$INSTANCE_IP.us-west-1.compute.amazonaws.com
```

- Install docker on EC2 instance
```
sudo yum update -y
sudo amazon-linux-extras install docker -y
sudo service docker start
sudo usermod -a -G docker ec2-user
```

- Log out+in and check if docker is working
```
docker info
```

- Download containers for e.g. heudiconv, mriqc, fmriprep onto EC2
```
docker pull nipy/heudiconv:0.9.0
```

- Give EC2 instance IAM role to access S3
```
export INSTANCE_ID=`aws ec2 describe-instances --filters Name=instance-state-name,Values=running | jq -j '.Reservations[0].Instances[0].InstanceId'`
aws ec2 associate-iam-instance-profile --instance-id $INSTANCE_ID --iam-instance-profile Name=S3FullAccessForEC2
```

- Copy content from S3 to EC2 instance after installing aws-cli
```
pip3 install awscli -U --user
aws s3 sync s3://described-vs-experienced/raw_fmri_data/AR-GT-BUNDLES-01_RANGEL ./AR-GT-BUNDLES-01_RANGEL
```

- Terminate instance
```
export INSTANCE_ID=`aws ec2 describe-instances --filters Name=instance-state-name,Values=running | jq -j '.Reservations[0].Instances[0].InstanceId'`
aws ec2 terminate-instances --instance-ids $INSTANCE_ID
```

######################################
# AWS ParallelCluster
######################################

Use custom bootstrap actions to set up master and compute nodes

- Define env variables
```
export KEY_NAME=`aws ec2 describe-key-pairs | jq -j '.KeyPairs[0].KeyName'`
export SG_ID=`aws ec2 describe-security-groups --filters Name=group-name,Values="test-cluster"  | jq -j '.SecurityGroups[0].GroupId'`
export SUBNET_ID=`aws ec2 describe-subnets | jq -j '.Subnets[0].SubnetId'`
export VPC_ID=`aws ec2 describe-vpcs | jq -j '.Vpcs[0].VpcId'`
export REGION=`aws configure get region`
```

- Copy script with bootstrap actions to s3
```
export STUDY_DIR=/Users/zeynepenkavi/Documents/RangelLab/DescribedVsLearned_fmri/preproc/00_aws
cd $STUDY_DIR
docker run --rm -it -v ~/.aws:/root/.aws -v $(pwd):/aws amazon/aws-cli s3 cp /aws/test-setup-env.sh s3://described-vs-experienced/test-setup-env.sh
```

- Set up temporary cluster config file with the environment variables piped in. Note [`make_cluster_config_ini.sh`](https://github.com/zenkavi/DescribedVsLearned_fmri/blob/master/preproc/00_aws/make_cluster_config_ini.sh) creates a `tmp.ini` file with the values piped in. Since I don't want to share these values publicly this file is not committed to my git history through a global setting in my `~/.gitignore` (ignores all files with `tmp` in the name).
```
./make_cluster_config_ini.sh
```

- Create cluster using temporary custom config.
```
pcluster create test-cluster -c tmp.ini
```

- Check cluster status
```
pcluster list --color
```

- Log onto cluster. You can directly ssh to the master node, but the compute nodes are only accessible from the master node, not from the Internet.
```
pcluster ssh test-cluster -i $KEYS_PATH/test-cluster.pem
```

- Stop and start compute nodes of cluster
```
pcluster stop test-cluster

pcluster start test-cluster
```

- Update cluster
```
pcluster update test-cluster -c tmp.ini
```

- Check cluster resources
```
sinfo
```

- Change node status (see https://slurm.schedmd.com/scontrol.html for other state options)
```
scontrol: update NodeName={NODE_NAME} State=POWER_DOWN
```

- Delete cluster
```
pcluster delete test-cluster
```

######################################
# Lustre filesystem
######################################

FsX for Lustre is separate AWS service that can be linked up with ParallelCluster to build filesytems with read and write access from e.g. S3. For our purposes this option probably has more features than we'd need. It is good if you want large amounts of data available to all machines in the cluster at any time. It is setup by an `fsx` section in the cluster config. Below are some basic commands to interact with it.

- List contents of filesystem
```
ls -lh /lustre
```

- View how much data is stored
```
lfs df -h
```

- View state of file
```
lfs hsm_state /lustre/{FILENAME}
```

- Release file content
```
sudo lfs hsm_release /lustre/{FILENAME}
```

- Load content of a file
```
nohup find local/directory -type f -print0 | xargs -0 -n 1 sudo lfs hsm_restore &
```

- [Recommended though under development] To write data back to the S3 bucket
```
export FS_ID=`aws fsx describe-file-systems | jq -j '.FileSystems[0].FileSystemId'`
aws fsx create-data-repository-task \
    --file-system-id $FS_ID \
    --type EXPORT_TO_REPOSITORY \
    --paths /lustre/bids_nifti_wface \
    --report Enabled=false
```

- [Not recommended] Write single file back to s3
```
sudo lfs hsm_archive path/to/export/file
sudo lfs hsm_action path/to/export/file
```

- [Not recommended] Write directory back to s3
```
nohup find local/directory -type f -print0 | xargs -0 -n 1 sudo lfs hsm_archive &
```

- Check if export completed (since the task above runs in background)
```
find path/to/export/file -type f -print0 | xargs -0 -n 1 -P 8 sudo lfs hsm_action | grep "ARCHIVE" | wc -l
```

- To change data update policy (default with CLI is no update)
```
export FS_ID=`aws fsx describe-file-systems | jq -j '.FileSystems[0].FileSystemId'`
aws fsx update-file-system \
    --file-system-id $FS_ID \
    --lustre-configuration AutoImportPolicy=NEW_CHANGED
```
