preproc/01_bidsify/bidsification_notes.md, before:


######################################
# Heudiconv
######################################  

[Heudiconv](https://heudiconv.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) converts DICOMs to Nifti in BIDS format.

## Make heuristics file

**IMPORTANT**: If you're using zsh, which is the new default on Mac Terminals you need to include `noglob` before running the docker image so it interprets the `*` wildcards correctly.

- Explore DICOM structures and specify the `heuristics` file.
```
noglob docker run --rm -it -v /Users/zeynepenkavi/Downloads/tmp:/base nipy/heudiconv:latest \
-d /base/AR-GT-BUNDLES-{subject}_RANGEL/*/*/*.IMA \
-o /base/ \
-f convertall \
-s 03 \
-c none --overwrite
```

- Get all subjects' ages from dicoms
```
noglob docker run --rm -it -v /Users/zeynepenkavi/Downloads/GTavares_2017_arbitration:/base nipy/heudiconv:latest \
-d /base/raw_fMRI_data/AR-GT-BUNDLES-{subject}_RANGEL/*/LOCALIZER_*/*.IMA \
-o /base/Nifti/ \
-f convertall \
-s 02 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 22 23 24 25 27 \
-c none --overwrite
```

- Convert dicoms of subject 01 into BIDS locally after copying single subject directory out to a temporary directory to avoid mounting the whole raw data directory. Check this then with the bidsvalidator on a browser to make sure the heuristics file is correct
```
noglob docker run --rm -it -v /Users/zeynepenkavi/Downloads/tmp:/base  \
-v /Users/zeynepenkavi/Downloads/GTavares_2017_arbitration/bids_nifti_wface:/out \
-v /Users/zeynepenkavi/Documents/RangelLab/DescribedVsLearned_fmri/preproc/01_bidsify:/code \
nipy/heudiconv:latest \
-d /base/AR-GT-BUNDLES-{subject}_RANGEL/*/*/*.IMA \
-b -o /out/ \
-f /code/heuristic.py \
-s 01 \
-c dcm2niix --overwrite
```

## Run heudiconv on cluster

- Push code to s3 BUCKET
```
export STUDY_DIR=/Users/zeynepenkavi/Documents/RangelLab/DescribedVsLearned_fmri/preproc
docker run --rm -it -v ~/.aws:/root/.aws -v $STUDY_DIR:/home amazon/aws-cli s3 sync /home/01_bidsify s3://described-vs-experienced/01_bidsify --exclude ".DS_Store"
```

- Test on master node of cluster. Need to download data necessary for the job from s3 bucket
```
export DATA_PATH=/scratch/raw_fmri_data
export CODE_PATH=/scratch/01_bidsify
export OUT_PATH=/scratch/bids_nifti_wface

if [[ ! -e $OUT_PATH ]]; then
  mkdir $OUT_PATH
  aws s3 sync s3://described-vs-experienced/bids_nifti_wface $OUT_PATH
fi

aws s3 sync s3://described-vs-experienced/raw_fmri_data/AR-GT-BUNDLES-01_RANGEL $DATA_PATH/AR-GT-BUNDLES-01_RANGEL

docker run --rm -it -v $DATA_PATH:/data \
-v $OUT_PATH:/out \
--cpus="4" --memory="8g" \
nipy/heudiconv:0.9.0 \
-d /data/AR-GT-BUNDLES-{subject}_RANGEL/*/*/*.IMA \
-b -o /out/ \
-f convertall \
-s 01 \
-c none --overwrite

docker run --rm -it -v $DATA_PATH:/data \
-v $OUT_PATH:/out \
-v $CODE_PATH:/code \
--cpus="4" --memory="8g" \
nipy/heudiconv:0.9.0 \
-d /data/AR-GT-BUNDLES-{subject}_RANGEL/*/*/*.IMA \
-b -o /out/ \
-f /code/heuristic.py \
-s 01 \
-c dcm2niix --overwrite
```

- To debug heudiconv docker container on master node: override entrypoint executable and run shell in the container
```
docker run --rm -it --cpus="4" --memory="8g" -v $DATA_PATH:/data -v $OUT_PATH:/out --entrypoint /bin/bash nipy/heudiconv:0.9.0
```

- Submit heudiconv jobs. Make sure to make the shell script executable as pulling from S3 this is no longer set.
```
export CODE_PATH=/scratch/01_bidsify
cd $CODE_PATH
chmod +x run_heudiconv.sh
./run_heudiconv.sh
```

######################################
# Physio
######################################

**TSV files specified for phsyiological and other continuous recordings do not include a header line. Instead the name of columns are specified in the JSON file.**

**Recordings with different sampling frequencies and/or starting times should be stored in separate files.**

sub-<label>/
  func/
      sub-<label>_task-bundles_run-1_recording-breathing_physio.tsv.gz
      sub-<label>_task-bundles_run-1_recording-breathing_physio.json
      sub-<label>_task-bundles_run-1_recording-cardiac_physio.tsv.gz
      sub-<label>_task-bundles_run-1_recording-cardiac_physio.json

######################################
# Event files
######################################

######################################
# bidsvalidator
######################################

Commit message:

debugging study uid for one subject

preproc/01_bidsify/bidsification_notes.md, after:


######################################
# Heudiconv
######################################  

[Heudiconv](https://heudiconv.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) converts DICOMs to Nifti in BIDS format.

## Make heuristics file

**IMPORTANT**: If you're using zsh, which is the new default on Mac Terminals you need to include `noglob` before running the docker image so it interprets the `*` wildcards correctly.

- Explore DICOM structures and specify the `heuristics` file.
```
noglob docker run --rm -it -v /Users/zeynepenkavi/Downloads/tmp:/base nipy/heudiconv:latest \
-d /base/AR-GT-BUNDLES-{subject}_RANGEL/*/*/*.IMA \
-o /base/ \
-f convertall \
-s 03 \
-c none --overwrite
```

- Get all subjects' ages from dicoms
```
noglob docker run --rm -it -v /Users/zeynepenkavi/Downloads/GTavares_2017_arbitration:/base nipy/heudiconv:latest \
-d /base/raw_fMRI_data/AR-GT-BUNDLES-{subject}_RANGEL/*/LOCALIZER_*/*.IMA \
-o /base/Nifti/ \
-f convertall \
-s 02 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 22 23 24 25 27 \
-c none --overwrite
```

- Convert dicoms of subject 01 into BIDS locally after copying single subject directory out to a temporary directory to avoid mounting the whole raw data directory. Check this then with the bidsvalidator on a browser to make sure the heuristics file is correct
```
noglob docker run --rm -it -v /Users/zeynepenkavi/Downloads/tmp:/base  \
-v /Users/zeynepenkavi/Downloads/GTavares_2017_arbitration/bids_nifti_wface:/out \
-v /Users/zeynepenkavi/Documents/RangelLab/DescribedVsLearned_fmri/preproc/01_bidsify:/code \
nipy/heudiconv:latest \
-d /base/AR-GT-BUNDLES-{subject}_RANGEL/*/*/*.IMA \
-b -o /out/ \
-f /code/heuristic.py \
-s 01 \
-c dcm2niix --overwrite
```

## Run heudiconv on cluster

- Push code to s3 BUCKET
```
export STUDY_DIR=/Users/zeynepenkavi/Documents/RangelLab/DescribedVsLearned_fmri/preproc
docker run --rm -it -v ~/.aws:/root/.aws -v $STUDY_DIR:/home amazon/aws-cli s3 sync /home/01_bidsify s3://described-vs-experienced/01_bidsify --exclude ".DS_Store"
```

- Test on master node of cluster. Need to download data necessary for the job from s3 bucket
```
export DATA_PATH=/scratch/raw_fmri_data
export CODE_PATH=/scratch/01_bidsify
export OUT_PATH=/scratch/bids_nifti_wface

if [[ ! -e $OUT_PATH ]]; then
  mkdir $OUT_PATH
  aws s3 sync s3://described-vs-experienced/bids_nifti_wface $OUT_PATH
fi

aws s3 sync s3://described-vs-experienced/raw_fmri_data/AR-GT-BUNDLES-01_RANGEL $DATA_PATH/AR-GT-BUNDLES-01_RANGEL

docker run --rm -it -v $DATA_PATH:/data \
-v $OUT_PATH:/out \
--cpus="4" --memory="8g" \
nipy/heudiconv:0.9.0 \
-d /data/AR-GT-BUNDLES-{subject}_RANGEL/*/*/*.IMA \
-b -o /out/ \
-f convertall \
-s 01 \
-c none --overwrite

docker run --rm -it -v $DATA_PATH:/data \
-v $OUT_PATH:/out \
-v $CODE_PATH:/code \
--cpus="4" --memory="8g" \
nipy/heudiconv:0.9.0 \
-d /data/AR-GT-BUNDLES-{subject}_RANGEL/*/*/*.IMA \
-b -o /out/ \
-f /code/heuristic.py \
-s 01 \
-c dcm2niix --overwrite
```

- To debug heudiconv docker container on master node: override entrypoint executable and run shell in the container
```
docker run --rm -it --cpus="4" --memory="8g" -v $DATA_PATH:/data -v $OUT_PATH:/out --entrypoint /bin/bash nipy/heudiconv:0.9.0
```

- Submit heudiconv jobs. Make sure to make the shell script executable as pulling from S3 this is no longer set.
```
export CODE_PATH=/scratch/01_bidsify
cd $CODE_PATH
chmod +x run_heudiconv.sh
./run_heudiconv.sh
```

- Subject 02's data was collected on two days so their DICOMs have differing `StudyUIDs`
(see here for discussions of the [problem](https://neurostars.org/t/conflicting-study-identifiers/4729/5) and a [solution](https://github.com/nipy/heudiconv/issues/280))

######################################
# Physio
######################################

**TSV files specified for phsyiological and other continuous recordings do not include a header line. Instead the name of columns are specified in the JSON file.**

**Recordings with different sampling frequencies and/or starting times should be stored in separate files.**

sub-<label>/
  func/
      sub-<label>_task-bundles_run-1_recording-breathing_physio.tsv.gz
      sub-<label>_task-bundles_run-1_recording-breathing_physio.json
      sub-<label>_task-bundles_run-1_recording-cardiac_physio.tsv.gz
      sub-<label>_task-bundles_run-1_recording-cardiac_physio.json

######################################
# Event files
######################################

######################################
# bidsvalidator
######################################
